+++
author="oalders"
date=2012-12-31T06:08:56+00:00
title="MetaCPAN is Moving Today (Dec 31, 2012)"
type="post"
url="/2012/12/31/metacpan-is-moving-today-dec-31-2012"
categories=[
  "cpan",
  "metacpan",
  "perl",
]
+++

This is just a quick note to let everyone know that MetaCPAN is moving
to a new hosting sponsor today (Dec 31st). Our old hosting relationship
with [speedchilli.com](http://speedchilli.com/) has unfortunately come
to an end. We\'ve been quite grateful for and more than satisfied with
their sponsorship over the last 1.5 years or so. Having the hardware and
bandwidth which speedchilli freely made available to us was instrumental
in the early days. (Initially everything was running off a tiny instance
in the Rackspace cloud. It wasn\'t much, but it was all we could afford
after passing the hat around). Having speedchill sponsor us allowed
everyone who contributes to MetaCPAN create something truly special.\
\
We\'ll have an announcement in the near future, to formally thank our
excellent, new hosting sponsor. At this point I just want to say that
there is a lot of work going on behind the scenes to move everything
over to the new machines. The bulk of the actual move has been taken on
by [Moritz Onken](https://metacpan.org/author/PERLER), who was able to
jump in over the holidays to just get it done. I should also thank [Leo
Lapworth](https://metacpan.org/author/LLAP) for moving our deployment to
Puppet and for nagging everyone to make sure it was working. This was
done well before we knew that we\'d need a new hosting sponsor, but it
sure makes re-deploying a lot easier. I\'d also like to thank [Clinton
Gormley](https://metacpan.org/author/DRTECH), [Florian
Ragwitz](https://metacpan.org/author/FLORA) and [Randy
Stauner](https://metacpan.org/author/RWSTAUNER) for their contributions
over the last little while. There are a lot of people working in the
background to keep MetaCPAN running smoothly. I certainly haven\'t
mentioned all of them here, but we\'re grateful for all of their
efforts.\
\
Part of the new deployment requires a full re-index of both CPAN and
BackPAN, so there may be some dists which have not been indexed at the
time when we switch over the DNS. So, please be patient if some search
results aren\'t returning exactly what you want. That will be fixed as
the indexing completes.

## Comments

Author: Ron Savage

Date: 12/31/2012 09:54:25 PM

  Hi

Thanx to all concerned, and a Happy New Year too!

Cheers
Ron

