---
title: MetaCPAN vs search.cpan.org
author: oalders
type: post
date: 2015-09-08T22:37:24+00:00
draft: true
url: /2015-09-08-
categories:
  - MetaCPAN
  - Perl
  - Programming

---
Occasionally I say something about MetaCPAN and I'm told I should actually write it down somewhere. Today I offer you an imaginary Q & A. If this makes sense, some of it may be transitioned to the MetaCPAN FAQ.

## Question: Is MetaCPAN a replacement for search.cpan.org

Answer: No

MetaCPAN will not replace search.cpan.org -- at least that's not the game plan. A monopoly on CPAN search is not necessarily a good thing. On the most basic level, if there are uptime problems with MetaCPAN.org, you can go to search.cpan.org and vice versa. If only one of the two exists, you don't have that luxury.

Quite frankly, there are many people out there who prefer search.cpan.org I don't count myself among them, but hey, I do occasionally use it myself if I can't find what I'm looking for on MetaCPAN. (Yes, I'm aware that we haven't solved search).

If it were up to me, I'd prefer people who are new to the Perl world to have MetaCPAN be their first CPAN search experience, but that's not entirely up to me.

## Isn't search.cpan.org the \*official\* Perl search site?

Answer: No

search.cpan.org has the good fortune of being a subdomain of cpan.org. That brings some assumptions with it which may not be entirely accurate. I don't know the history of how this came to be, but there's no one official CPAN search site and over the years there have been others. Do you remember [kobesearch][1]? One of my favourites was [FrePAN][2]. It showed modules almost in real time as they were uploaded. It inspired aspects of MetaCPAN.

So, use what you like, but don't think that any one is more official than the other, because no one site actually is official.

## Question: Can I use the MetaCPAN API to build my own CPAN search site?

Answer: Go for it

[Gabor Szabo][3] has tried to [re-imagine MetaCPAN][4] to some extent. The original MetaCPAN search site was just a single page JavaScript app. I have fond memories of it. If you're going to hit the API a lot, get in touch with us. Alternatively, if your traffic becomes a problem we'll solve it on our end. 😉 In all seriousness, there are very few cases where something hogs the resources of API. In almost all cases it has been a long-running cron or something with unoptimized queries that hit us hard. The API is there for you to use it. Please do.

## Question: What would you say if someone built a better MetaCPAN?

Answer: \o/

Let me offer the caveat that solving the first 80% of the problem is trivial. After that it gets hairy. You need to weed through a lot of craziness and seek out even more tribal knowledge. The thing that I like about MetaCPAN is that it makes my days easier. If someone builds an even better tool, I will welcome it and maybe enjoy it a touch more knowing that the maintenance is someone else's problem.

## Question: Can I host my own MetaCPAN mirror at $work?

Answer: You can. I'm not sure how many mirrors (if any) are out in the wild, but I do know that people have tried to tackle this. The idea is that you could have a private MetaCPAN which would index the versions of the CPAN modules which are in your build environment (assuming you're not just pulling the latest from CPAN with every build). You could then also add your own DarkPAN modules to the mix and you've got all of your sources and documents in one place. You also get a handy API for free, which you can use to get more information about your repository. In theory, it sounds like a really useful tool. In practice, I can't speak to whether or not this is actually a practical solution. I do hope that it is, though.

## Question: I have this really great idea for a feature. Will you add it?

Answer: This reminds me of one of my favourite professors. He once told me, "that's the right answer, but are you asking the right question?"

"Will you add it?" is not the right question. "Would you accept a pull request?" is the correct question.

I'm not actually trying to be a jerk about this. If you have an idea, but you aren't able to implement it, you can open an issue for it and we'll consider it. Just be aware that most of us have very limited free time. We're happy to review code, but we have a lot of maintenance issues to deal with, bug fixes etc. If there's a feature you'd like to see what you likely need to do is champion it. That means writing the code (or finding some else to do it) and then also being available to fix any bugs which it may trigger. MetaCPAN is here for everyone, but that also means that we need a lot of people to help carry the burden. It's really deflating to merge someone's code, see that it has introduced a bug and then be forced to handle the cleanup. In this case it's actually easier for us to revert the new feature and then get on with our lives. So, if you implement something, be prepared to help maintain it.

 [1]: http://kobesearch.cpan.org
 [2]: https://web.archive.org/web/20111121205845/http://frepan.org/
 [3]: https://metacpan.org/author/SZABGAB
 [4]: http://cpan.perlmaven.com/
