---
title: Beware the fatfinger
author: oalders
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /2016-01-22-
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
A while back a colleague of mine posted something like this in chat:

"I'm getting an error that Foo::Bar::Baz::Thing::Dependancy can't be found, but I know it's installed. What am I missing?"

Do you see what the problem is?

The module name is actually Foo::Bar::Baz::Thing::Dependency -- there's a typo in the final word. That's the kind of thing you can bang your head against the wall trying to find. I wondered if there was a way to catch this automatically and alert you as to the problem. It turns out there is. I give you [fatfinger][1].

What \`fatfinger\` does is spot typos in \`use\` statements of any module in which it is \`use\`d. It performs fuzzy matching on your missing module name. First it checks %INC to see you already loaded it somewhere else. Next it uses \`@INC\` to check your filesystem for the module in question. If it does find it, you'll get a message informing you of what you probably should have typed.

In order for it to be effective, you need to \`use\` it as early in your logic as possible. For instance, save this as \`fatfinger.pl\`:

<pre>use strict;
use warningz;
</pre>

If you run this, the output will look something like:

<pre>$ perl fatfinger.pl
Can't locate warningz.pm in @INC (you may need to install the warningz module) (@INC contains: /Users/olaf/perl5/lib/perl5/5.18.2/darwin-thread-multi-2level /Users/olaf/perl5/lib/perl5/5.18.2 /Users/olaf/perl5/lib/perl5/darwin-thread-multi-2level /Users/olaf/perl5/lib/perl5 /Library/Perl/5.18/darwin-thread-multi-2level /Library/Perl/5.18 /Network/Library/Perl/5.18/darwin-thread-multi-2level /Network/Library/Perl/5.18 /Library/Perl/Updates/5.18.2 /System/Library/Perl/5.18/darwin-thread-multi-2level /System/Library/Perl/5.18 /System/Library/Perl/Extras/5.18/darwin-thread-multi-2level /System/Library/Perl/Extras/5.18 .) at fatfinger.pl line 2.
BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at fatfinger.pl line 2.
</pre>

Now, let's \`use fatfinger\`:

<pre>use strict;
use fatfinger;
use warningz;
</pre>

If you run this, the output will look something like:

<pre>$ perl fatfinger.pl
----------
The module "warningz" could not be found. Perhaps you meant to "use warnings"?
----------

BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at fatfinger.pl line 3.
</pre>

Much more helpful and much more readable.

Note that order really does matter here. If you \`use fatfinger\` \_after\_ you \`use warningz\` you'll get the standard "Can't locate&#8230;" warning that you see in the first example.

That's the good news. Here's the bad news.

  * fatfinger will not tell you the correct typing of a misspelled method name.
  * fatfinger will not find misspelled \`use\` statements in modules where you don't explicitly \`use\` it.
  * You don't want this in your production code. If you do use it, someone may accidentally commit it to your master branch. There will be performance penalties.

So, is this thing even useful? Yes and no. Firstly, it's useful in the case I've mentioned above. It's just one line and it can help you figure out this problem if you need it to. If your editor already supports word completion then you may not need this at all.

Secondly, I think it's a good example of how to use an \`@INC\` hook. An \`@INC\` hook is an anonymous sub which you can add to your \`@INC\`, which perl uses to find your modules. If you \`push\` it onto the end of \`@INC\` as I've done here, you can say "oh, you can't find this module? Perform this logic instead." It's powerful stuff. 

There are also neat tricks you can perform in \`@INC\` hooks. For example, [Acme::Magic::Pony][2] could have been written using an \`@INC\` hook rather than [overriding CORE::GLOBAL::require()][3]

Could I have solved more problems with \`fatfinger\`? Yes, but I don't think I could have done it without a global \`$SIG{\_\_DIE\_\_}\` handler. That can be fun, but if you've already got such a handler somewhere else in your code, then hilarity ensues. In fact, Gabor Szabo has written a nice [introduction to \_\_WARN\_\_ and \_\_DIE\_\_ handlers][4]. I should mention that I actually did start this code by overriding \`$SIG{\_\_DIE\_\_}\` globally and it became clear to me pretty quickly that this road led to madness.

It would be really nice if there were a similarly easy solution for misspelled method names, but since I can't currently find a sane way to do it, this will have to suffice.

 [1]: https://metacpan.org/pod/fatfinger
 [2]: httsp://metacpan.org/pod/Acme::Magic::Pony
 [3]: https://metacpan.org/source/JLAVALLEE/Acme-Magic-Pony-0.03/lib/Acme/Magic/Pony.pm#L22
 [4]: http://perlmaven.com/how-to-capture-and-save-warnings-in-perl
