---
title: 'Common Confusables: Grammar for Geeks'
author: oalders
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /2019-02-12-
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
After my first year of University, I took a few years off. When I came back, I decided that my initial path (Science) had clearly been a mistake. Instead I opted for the Humanities. (Little did I know that I'd this would be my path to a career writing software).

As preparation for my return to school, I decided to improve my grammar. I remember working a factory job and spending my lunch time with a sandwich in one hand and a book about grammar in the other. You know, it's actually not nearly as boring as you think. A well written book on any subject can be compelling and this one left quite an impression on me. My having read a book on a subject hardly qualifies me as an expert, but there a few things that did stick with me. One of those things was the concept of common confusables.

Common confusables are words which we often mistakenly exchange for one another. Some common examples would be "its" vs "it's", "mold" vs "mould" or "affect" vs "effect". These are generally words which are strongly similar in spelling and are similar sounding.  A spell checker won't always catch you misusing these words. Often these mistakes are only caught by another human being.

Now, what does this have to do with programming? Well, during of my career writing software, I've come to notice a few obvious confusables which tend to trip us up. I say "us" because I've been burned myself and I like to share what I've learned. I think about this partly because I review a lot of code. At [$work](https://www.maxmind.com) we have particularly brutal code reviews. That's one of the things I really like about my job. My work will be scrutinized by someone else. I know this to be the case and it keeps me on my toes. It's a bit of game to see how well I can do.

I should add that our code reviews aren't strictly about the code itself. There's a lot of emphasis on naming things correctly, spelling correctly and just generally getting things right. It's in this context that I'd like to raise a few points of grammar which can make your code (and your documentation) easier to understand and also just a little more correct.

The point of this exercise is not to belittle anyone, but to point out how being consistent about how we use words can increase the clarity of the code which we write. It's also worth pointing out that these mistakes will be made by both native and non-native English speakers. Please, be sensitive when correcting someone else's grammar. We all make grammatical mistakes, whether it's because we're tired, in a hurry or just not aware of the rules. It's possible to be kind while helping someone improve their grammar. Also, if you're a jerk about pointing out grammatical errors, it's the kind of thing that people remember about you, but not in a good way.

<h2 style="text-align: center;">
  Problem #1: Nouns and Verbs in Method Names
</h2>

The problem I'm most aware of is people using nouns as if they were verbs.  "Setup" and "set up" are particularly painful examples, which some people likely believe to be interchangeable. Many times I see something like:

`<br />
sub setup_user_account {<br />
...<br />
}<br />
` 

The problem here is that **setup** is a noun, while **set up** is a verb. What we see above is 3 nouns jammed together. Method names are generally easier to understand when they have a verb, because that means they express what kind of action they are going to take. Let's take a look at the method name with the verb:

## `<br />
sub set_up_user_account {<br />
...<br />
}<br />
` 

This is clearer and easier to read, because it pretty much works as an actual sentence. Simply by seeing the name of the method, we have an idea of what it should do.

Let's look at another example.

`<br />
sub login_user {<br />
...<br />
}<br />
` 

What does this method do? Does it return the id of a user which can be used for a login? Does it actually log a user in? It's not clear.

`<br />
sub log_user_in {<br />
...<br />
}<br />
` 

Now, this is more obvious. It's a method used to perform authentication.

<h2 style="text-align: center;">
  Problem #2: Nouns and Verbs in Class Names
</h2>

We've seen above that it's generally nice to use method names which contain a verb, since they tell you what the method wants to do. It's also nice to have class names which are nouns, since they tell you something about the methods which they contain.

Using this as a guideline, if you are CamelCasing your class names, you'll want to consider this:

`Foo::Model::User::SetUp`

If we break down the above, we get:

`Noun::Noun::Noun::Verb`.

A class name is not going to boil down to a readable sentence -- it doesn't have to. However, stringing together a random collection of nouns and verbs isn't going to improve clarity about what the class can do.

Now, if we treat the class as a collection of nouns we get:

`Foo::Model::User::Setup`

If we break this down, we get:

`Noun::Noun::Noun::Noun`

Our class naming now follows a consistent pattern and is less confusing. Minimizing the amount of confusion our code creates should be a pretty high priority.

<h2 style="text-align: center;">
  Problem #3: Nouns and Verbs on Buttons
</h2>

A button is a call to action, so I think it makes sense to tend towards verbs when adding text to a button. The classic default for a button is **submit** (verb) as opposed to its corresponding noun: **submission**.

So, you probably want to prefer "log in" over "login", "log out" over "logout", etc.

<h2 style="text-align: center;">
  Problem #4: Nouns and Verbs in Menu Items
</h2>

I don't have a strong opinion on when to use **login** vs **log in** in menu items on a web page, but if your menu items are generally nouns, stick with the noun (**login**). If your menu items are generally verbs, stick with a verb (**log in**). The occasion where a hard rule should be applied is if you're actually telling (or inviting) the user to do something.

**Signup now!** is just wrong. What you mean to say is **Sign Up Now!**

Here's a by no means complete list of nouns and verbs which could trip you up.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Noun
    </th>
    
    <th>
      Verb
    </th>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      cleanup
    </td>
    
    <td>
      clean up
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      login
    </td>
    
    <td>
      log in
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      logout
    </td>
    
    <td>
      log out
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      setup
    </td>
    
    <td>
      set up
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      signup
    </td>
    
    <td>
      sign up
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      signin
    </td>
    
    <td>
      sign in
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      signout
    </td>
    
    <td>
      sign out
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

&nbsp;

## While We're On the Subject

While we're at it, let's go over a couple of other commonly confused words which don't belong to the noun vs verb pattern.

### Deprecated vs Depreciated

Many times I've read documentation which says that a feature has been _depreciated_. Unless your code is dealing with finance, you almost certainly meant to say that the feature has now been _deprecated_. The presence or absence of the letter _i_ in this word has a huge impact on the meaning.

### Compliment vs Complement

If you're comparing lists of data, you probably want to say _complement_. If you're telling me I look great in this suit, you're giving me a _compliment_.

### Pore vs Pour

I wasn't initially going to include this in the list, but I saw this a couple of times over the last few weeks. Basically, you _pore_ over code (that is, you study it carefully). You don't _pour_ over code, unless your dumping a cup of coffee onto it.

### Baited vs Bated

This isn't related strictly to programming, but I did see this on IRC in the last week or so. If you're greatly anticipating something, you are waiting <a href="http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/with_bated_breath">with <i>bated</i> breath</a>. Waiting with _baited_ breath implies to me that you're trying to attract ham lovers by having eaten a lot of bacon and now refusing to brush your teeth. Just remember bated is like _abate_. It's about holding your breath, not lacing it with something.

Thus ends my list for today. I hope you find it useful!
